I was born in Saudi Arabia. A city name Jeddah. It is not the capital city. In 1982, August 21, the time when I started school, I went back to Somalia with my family. My parents were working there. When the contract is finished, you must go back to Somalia. If I was born in France, maybe they give me the nationality, but not in Saudi Arabia. In all Arabic countries, they don’t. So, I came back with my family to Somalia. I finished high school in Somalia and I have been accepted to some universities in Malaysia. I started with engineering. I didn’t finish and I came back to Somalia. Then, I started a university in Somalia. I started business tourism. I have a certificate. I started working. I stayed in Somalia, but sometimes I go for a long time to Iraq, Egypt, and Dubai. I am going for tourism because my office has contact with some hotels. When people attacked me, I left my country. I left for Turkey because they took my passport. I left in 2012. In March, my son was born and then I left. I stayed there for two months. Then I went to Addis-Ababa by car. I went illegally because they took my passport. Then, I went to Sudan because I understand the Arabic language and my face looks like the Sudanese people. At that time, I did not go anywhere, I left my country. I thought to go to Kenya, but at that time there was Al-Shabaab at the border. So, I went to Ethiopia, Addis-Ababa alone. I stayed for two months. Ethiopia was very poor. For this, I don’t like to stay in Ethiopia. Ethiopian is racist toward Somalian. So, Somalian don’t like Ethiopian. I left Ethiopia and went to Sudan. There are a lot of people from Somalia. You stay there when you look like Somalian, and you need an apartment, he talks with you. I stayed for 2 months and after that, somebody told me there is a smuggler, if you need to go Sudan, we can go. I told him OK; I was going to Sudan. It costed 200 dollars and I could go inside Sudan without any problem. Other people from Ethiopia and Somalia, we went to Sudan. They were going to Libya but I didn’t need to go to Libya. I stayed in Khartoum, the capital city and after that, I went to Port Sudan, it’s near the sea. I stayed there for 2 months; and after that, somebody tell me there is a smuggler there and you can go to Syria. If I find a job there, it’s good for me, but I don’t have any documents, this is a problem for me. I can go into the city, wherever I want. I told him, I need to go to Syria, and he told me I have some smugglers, I can make for you some documents, after that, you can go to Syria with the ship. I stayed there for two months and a half. I talked with the smuggler, I told him “I am coming for you” and he said, “you come”. I stayed in his home. He made for me a passport from Sudan. I came to Syria with a passport. When I came to Syria, I gave this passport to the smuggler. I came there by ship. I know some cousins who are in Syria. My brother’s wife and children were staying there, my brother is dead. When I came there, I went to their home in Latakia. I am sorry, I am talking to you in the Arabic language! Then, I went to Aleppo and I stayed with my brother’s wife. My brother is dead in Somalia. I stay with her. She said “I must go now, there is too much war”. I told her “Ok you can go”. She went to Damascus. After that, I took a smuggler, he is from Kurdish Syrian, I talked with him, and I told him I need to cross the border of Turkey. He told me OK. I gave him some money like 400 dollars. After that, I crossed the border because when I came there, I didn’t have any documents. The Syrian police caught me and told me “You are a terrorist” or maybe he killed me. But I talked with some people, Kurdish Syrian, and I think he has some places, some cousins, near the border of Turkey. I went to his home; I gave him 400 dollars. When I crossed the border, I came to Turkey. I came to Antakya. I went to the bus station, he has some cousins in Turkey and he drove me to the bus station, he got a ticket for me and he sent me to Istanbul. I think I stayed in Istanbul for 1 year and a half. In October, 2015, I moved to Greece. I talked with some people I know; he is my friend and he is from Somalia. He is a student now in Istanbul. I found a job in Ankara. In Turkey, police don’t attack black people, they don’t make any problems with black people. I stayed in Turkey for a long time. I never saw a policeman telling me “Give me your papers”. Sometimes, I meet with him for some coffee, I talk with him, and he tells me “You are from where”, I say “I am from Somalia”, he said “good people”. They give me money and supports, but then I worked with a printer machine. I am working on that maybe for a long time. When I came, I had some money before. At this time, I just needed to have a job, I didn’t need money. After that, I was too much tired of Turkey, and someone told me “Why you don’t cross and go to find something in Europe?”. I told him “Ok, I come with you”. I know one person, who left Turkey, he went to Greece, and after that, he found someone from Sudan, I left Turkey and I came to Greece. I stayed a bit because in Istanbul, there are too many smugglers not like in Ankara. I talked with a smuggler, he was Turkish, and some Arabic people. I talked with him; he told me “Go to Izmir”. I went to Izmir. He makes some contact with smugglers in Izmir. I brought the money from Istanbul with my friend. I said when I crossed and I moved to Greece, you can give him the money. He is a student yes. I stayed in Izmir for 5 days with the smuggler. It is like a pension. There are too many people from everywhere like African, Syrian people, Iraqi people… I came to a port with forty people in a big boat. When I came to Greece, they gave me a paper for 1 month, from the Greek government. They gave me a paper that I must leave Greece after 1 month. I stayed in Thessaloniki for 2 days in closed camp. Then, I went outside and I went to Athens with Somalian people. I met them and I gave them 50 euros for a month and for every week, I give 15 or maybe 20 euros for food. Because my paper is finished, the police catch me, and they put me in some closed camp for 6 months in Athens. The closed camp is very bad, it is like a prison. There were too many people from Albania, from Morocco. Every day, they fight but I don’t fight. I fight 1 day with a guy from Cameroon. I don’t know, he attacked me two times or three times, and I don’t like to make a fight. When the 6 months are finished, they gave you the paper for 6 months and after 6 months, you must leave Greece. I went out of the camp but I stayed in Athens with other Somalian people for 1 year. They gave me a paper for 6 months, this time I am not afraid of the police, it’s ok, when the police catch me, I give them paper. When the 6 months finished, I stayed 1 year and a half. I came there on the 13 of January. The big problem for me was when I stayed in Greece for 6 months in jail and 6 months with the paper and then I left. I looked for some smugglers. I stayed with some people, I think 17 or 18 from Syria and Iraq. I know the driver because I saw him when I talked with the smuggler. He told me “Go with this car, he is the driver”. I told him “Ok”. I paid 1500 euros, and that’s how I came to Serbia near Belgrade. I think it is 10 kilometers from Belgrade. When I walked, I saw some buses, I went to the bus station. After that, at the bus station, I say “I need to go to a camp in Bogovađa”. I listened to some people, some of my friends, they said “when you come there, ask for a camp”. I know this camp. When I came to Bogovađa, they gave me the paper and they told me “Go to Banja”. I paid for a taxi to go there directly for 65 euros. He asked me for 80 euros, I said “no it’s too much”, I said “70”, ok “65”. He told me how is the situation in the camp, that I must clean, and do like this, and not making any problems, and “you don’t drink inside”. I told him “Ok”. They give me an ID card for 6 months and I can move. I think they stay with the smuggler. They are in the camp, but he is ready, he needed to go, he made contact with the smuggler, the smuggler told him “Come”, he stayed in some places, when the car is ready, he went with the car. If he stayed with the smuggler, he didn’t need to be in the camp. My friend when he came to Greece, he told me “You can stay in a camp in Bogovađa”, but they said that Bogovađa is very bad. You must cut your hair, the people who sleep there, told me “You must do it”. I told them “Why? This is my choice, if I like it, I make it, if I don’t like it, I don’t do it”. I think he is a military. Those people are refugees and are not from the army! The people told me that it’s a good camp. So, I came there. It’s very good here and it’s a nice place. Sometimes, I went to Loznica by taxi, when I need something or I went to some restaurants sometimes. They are good people there and some people, sometimes, when they meet you, they say “excuse me, can I take a picture with you?” When it was winter, I was with some friends from Morocco; they left the camp now I don’t know where they go. He wanted to go to Loznica. He told me “You know where is Loznica?”. I told him yes. They tell me “Come with me”. When I have been there, too many ladies came with me, “can we have one picture?”. You have breakfast but if I want to wake up for breakfast, I can wake up, but sometimes, I don’t care about breakfast, and I sleep. From 8:30 to 9:30, there is no breakfast. If I need breakfast, maybe I wake up. I wake up at noon maybe, 11, 12 o’clock and this time and I come for lunch, I eat from 12:30 to 13:30. The last dinner is from 6:30 to 7:30. Sometimes I eat, and sometimes I don’t care about any food. I go to the supermarket, I buy some things, and I cook. When my smoke is finished, I go to the market. Yes, she is my friend. I give her the name: Margarita. When she sees me, she says “Ciao Margarita”, and I say “Ciao Margarita”. She is good. But when I’m coming, I had one problem. Some thieves took my mobile. If he is still here, I must fight with him. I ask my friends for a mobile, a Galaxy 5 as I don’t like iPhone. Before he comes, he said, “my friend, I need to contact my family”. I gave him some time when he contacts me when he finishes, he gives me. And one day, I don’t sleep for the whole night, I woke up for the whole night, so that time I’m sleeping maybe after breakfast like 10 o’clock like that. When I sleep, he comes to me and says “I need to contact with my family”. I told him “I put in charge, take with the charge, when you finish, give me, I don’t wake up today, I need to sleep”. He tells me “Ok”. I wake up maybe at 3 o’clock. When I wake up, he doesn’t sleep. I ask some people, he left, he doesn’t talk with anybody, he takes my mobile. Another man he knows at that time that he left, and he didn’t tell me. Another Algerian name Samir, he knew he left, he knew he took my mobile, but he doesn’t talk to me. Algerian people are thieves. It’s the only problem with the racists. When I stayed in Greece, I hate myself, every day I am drinking. Because when I stay in Greece, I have my wife and for this time, I became crazy. I don’t have contact with any people. I sleep, wake up, and I go to some bars, and I drink, I go back, I sleep, I wake up. I don’t have care for food or anything. After that, I remember something, I stopped with a drink after that, I must go, I leave this country, if I stay maybe I will die. That’s somebody, he came and he talked to me too much, he said “why do you do this like this, you are Muslim”. I accept this. Every day I remember what can I do. It’s very different. You can see here, I don’t have any job or anything, only somebody sends me money, like some cousins and some friends. I finish my money. Every day I smoke. I don’t have a job. For this reason, I leave this country. But it’s a safe country, I just worry about the work and the money. When I arrived, I stayed in Turkey, I have a friend, he lived in Turkey and he went to Europe, he took a passport, after that, he came back for me. He told me “Why do you stay there? Go! Find some passport”. I accept it. I don’t like Greece because when I stay there, they made many problems for myself and my country, so I don’t like it. It is not only racism. When I came to Greece, it is very poor, there is a job but not too many jobs, only, police came for me when he put me in jail and closed camp, I hate Greece for this experience. When I go for anyway, I remember Greece. Maybe if I have a long time, I see my children, and I will tell this history. For Hungary, if they take my fingerprints, it’s problem. I don’t like Hungary neither. For Croatia, I think the smuggler doesn’t have contact with Croatian people, the smugglers know Hungarian people. Then, the Croatian people, when they catch you or when you cross the border, they send you to jail for 6 months. They are very racist. About this, I didn’t try Croatia. There is no jail. Only he takes your fingerprints, after that you can go. He gives you the choice: if you need fingerprints or you don’t need them, then he let you go or maybe he gives you status. For Somalian, he gives status. I like England but England is very far. I want to go to Germany. First, I must go to France. One time, I come to the border with Bulgaria. When I stay in Greece, some smuggler told me “You can go to Bulgaria and Serbia”. Because at that time, I came to Serbia from Macedonia, police caught me and deport me. After that, I tried again another time. He caught me, he deported me. I came near Bulgaria, I came inside Bulgaria, and Bulgarian police caught me. After that, I came to Serbia. Some smuggler told me “When you go, go to this place, it’s a safe place”. Bulgarian police are very problematic to you. For Greece, I tried one time only. When the police catch you, he fights and after that he deports you. I went there by car. He took me to the border. In Athens, I contact some smugglers, he told me that he has a road to Bulgaria. He understands that Bulgarian police don’t catch him. After that, I left from the car, I crossed some places, after that, another car was waiting for me there just after the border. When I came inside the car, maybe this car is working for 15 minutes and the police came. He caught the driver, and he caught the people. “Come down”. When we came down, he fought all the people as I remembered, a friend from Sudan, when he fought him, he told him in Arabic “mother fucker”. I think there are 30 people. First, they asked “From Turkey?”, I said, “no from Greece”, and he deported me. I called the smuggler and I said: “This plan is finished”. I found another car. I came near the train station. I took the ticket with the train and I went back to Athens. I remembered my friend’s fight, that time I was very angry because I drank too much alcohol. When the police pushed me, I talked with him in English, some bullshit, he came and he fought with me too much, “don’t talk and sit”. When I remembered this, I laughed too much. Some families of Syrians, they didn’t care about anything. Bulgarian people are mafia. I have a friend, he talked with me about his country, the polices are mafia, the government is the mafia, all people are mafia from Bulgaria, I am too much afraid of Bulgaria.

